revising and condensing definitions (#5067)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/snippets/_indirect-selection-definitions.md

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.5" >

> You can use the following modes to configure the behavior when performing indirect selection (with `eager` as the default). Test exclusion is always greedy: if ANY parent is explicitly excluded, the test will be excluded as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following modes to configure the behavior when performing indirect selection (with `eager` mode as the default). Test exclusion is always greedy: if ANY parent is explicitly excluded, the test will be excluded as well.
```

> The `buildable` and `cautious` can be useful in environments when you're only building a subset of your DAG, and you want to avoid the test failures you'd see in `eager` mode caused by unbuilt resources. You can also achieve this with [deferral](/reference/node-selection/defer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `buildable` and `cautious` modes can be useful in environments when you're only building a subset of your DAG, and you want to avoid the test failures you'd see with `eager` that are caused by unbuilt resources. You can also achieve this with [deferral](/reference/node-selection/defer).
```

> The `buildable` and `cautious` can be useful in environments when you're only building a subset of your DAG, and you want to avoid the test failures you'd see in `eager` mode caused by unbuilt resources. You can also achieve this with [deferral](/reference/node-selection/defer).

Reviewer 2: Add missing word:
```suggestion
The `buildable` and `cautious` modes can be useful in environments when you're only building a subset of your DAG, and you want to avoid the test failures you'd see in `eager` mode caused by unbuilt resources. You can also achieve this with [deferral](/reference/node-selection/defer).
```

> #### Eager mode (default)

Reviewer: sugg: 
- prettier URL for anchor link -- easier link mgmt for future
- more concise/less repetitive since first sentence starts with "By default" and it's mentioned multiple times on the same page

```suggestion
#### Eager mode
```

> By default, runs tests if any of their parent nodes are selected, regardless of whether all dependencies are met. This includes ANY tests that reference the selected nodes. Models will be built if they depend on the selected model. In this mode, any tests depending on unbuilt resources will raise an error, helping to identify potential issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, runs tests if any of the parent nodes are selected, regardless of whether all dependencies are met. This includes ANY tests that reference the selected nodes. Models will be built if they depend on the selected model. In this mode, any tests depending on unbuilt resources will raise an error to help you identify potential issues.
```

> By default, runs tests if any of their parent nodes are selected, regardless of whether all dependencies are met. This includes ANY tests that reference the selected nodes. Models will be built if they depend on the selected model. In this mode, any tests depending on unbuilt resources will raise an error, helping to identify potential issues.

Reviewer 2: The fact that it will raise an error in certain scenarios is more of a warning of a possibly undesirable side-effect rather than a feature we are trying to promote. So I'd suggest either removing "helping to identify potential issues", or finding some other way to call out this warning.

```suggestion
By default, runs tests if any of their parent nodes are selected, regardless of whether all dependencies are met. This includes ANY tests that reference the selected nodes. Models will be built if they depend on the selected model. In this mode, any tests depending on unbuilt resources will raise an error.
```

Reviewer 2: This became outdated, so added another comment here:
https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/5067/files#r1526936116

> By default, runs tests if any of the parent nodes are selected, regardless of whether all dependencies are met. This includes ANY tests that reference the selected nodes. Models will be built if they depend on the selected model. In this mode, any tests depending on unbuilt resources will raise an error to help you identify potential issues.

Reviewer 2: The fact that it will raise an error in certain scenarios is more of a warning of a possibly undesirable side-effect rather than a feature we are trying to promote. So I'd suggest either removing "helping to identify potential issues", or finding some other way to call out this warning.

```suggestion
By default, runs tests if any of the parent nodes are selected, regardless of whether all dependencies are met. This includes ANY tests that reference the selected nodes. Models will be built if they depend on the selected model. In this mode, any tests depending on unbuilt resources will raise an error.
```

> #### Cautious mode

Reviewer 2: It would be nice if the ordering progresses from most inclusive to least inclusive.

That would mean swapping the order of cautious and buildable:
1. eager
1. buildable
1. cautious
1. empty

The main issue is that the current description of `buildable` references `cautious`. We could get around that be re-wording the `buildable` section though.

Author: OK done!

> Ensures that tests are executed and models are built only when all necessary dependencies of the selected models are met. Restricts tests to only those that exclusively reference selected nodes. Tests will only be executed if all the nodes they depend on are selected, which prevents tests from running if one or more of its parents nodes are unselected and, consequently, unbuilt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensures that tests are executed and models are built only when all necessary dependencies of the selected models are met. Restricts tests to only those that exclusively reference selected nodes. Tests will only be executed if all the nodes they depend on are selected, which prevents tests from running if one or more of its parent nodes are unselected and, consequently, unbuilt.
```

#### Buildable mode

> Only runs tests that refer to selected nodes (or their ancestors). Only builds models that rely on the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is slightly more inclusive than "cautious" by including tests whose references are each within the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is useful when a test depends on a model **and** a direct ancestor of that model, like confirming an aggregation has the same totals as its input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only runs tests that refer to selected nodes (or their ancestors). Only builds models that rely on the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is slightly more inclusive than `cautious` by including tests whose references are each within the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is useful when a test depends on a model _and_ a direct ancestor of that model, like confirming an aggregation has the same totals as its input.
```

> Only runs tests that refer to selected nodes (or their ancestors). Only builds models that rely on the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is slightly more inclusive than "cautious" by including tests whose references are each within the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is useful when a test depends on a model **and** a direct ancestor of that model, like confirming an aggregation has the same totals as its input.

Reviewer 2: The 2nd sentence isn't accurate -- can we cut it?
```suggestion
Only runs tests that refer to selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is slightly more inclusive than "cautious" by including tests whose references are each within the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is useful when a test depends on a model **and** a direct ancestor of that model, like confirming an aggregation has the same totals as its input.
```

Reviewer 2: This became outdated, so added a new comment here:
https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/5067/files#r1526937816

> Only runs tests that refer to selected nodes (or their ancestors). Only builds models that rely on the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is slightly more inclusive than `cautious` by including tests whose references are each within the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is useful when a test depends on a model _and_ a direct ancestor of that model, like confirming an aggregation has the same totals as its input.

Reviewer 2: The 2nd sentence isn't accurate -- can we cut it?
```suggestion
Only runs tests that refer to selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is slightly more inclusive than `cautious` by including tests whose references are each within the selected nodes (or their ancestors). This mode is useful when a test depends on a model _and_ a direct ancestor of that model, like confirming an aggregation has the same totals as its input.
```

#### Empty mode

> Restricts the build to only the selected node and ignores any indirect dependencies, including tests. It does not execute any tests, whether they are directly attached to the selected node or not. The empty mode is typically used for interactive compilation without running any tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restricts the build to only the selected node and ignores any indirect dependencies, including tests. It doesn't execute any tests, whether they are directly attached to the selected node or not. The empty mode is typically used for interactive compilation without running any tests.
```

> Restricts the build to only the selected node and ignores any indirect dependencies, including tests. It does not execute any tests, whether they are directly attached to the selected node or not. The empty mode is typically used for interactive compilation without running any tests.

Reviewer 2: Could we include a link to the [interactive compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile#interactive-compile) page?

```suggestion
Restricts the build to only the selected node and ignores any indirect dependencies, including tests. It does not execute any tests, whether they are directly attached to the selected node or not. The empty mode is typically used for [interactive compilation](/reference/commands/compile#interactive-compile) without running any tests.
```

Reviewer 2: Could we do a simple and direct description for clarity?

"The empty mode does not include any tests and is automatically used for [interactive compilation](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile#interactive-compile)."

Reviewer 2: This became outdated, so I created a new comment here:
https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/5067/files#r1526940281

> Restricts the build to only the selected node and ignores any indirect dependencies, including tests. It doesn't execute any tests, whether they are directly attached to the selected node or not. The empty mode is typically used for interactive compilation without running any tests.

Reviewer 2: Could we include a link to the [interactive compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile#interactive-compile) page?

```suggestion
Restricts the build to only the selected node and ignores any indirect dependencies, including tests. It doesn't execute any tests, whether they are directly attached to the selected node or not. The empty mode does not include any tests and is automatically used for [interactive compilation](/reference/commands/compile#interactive-compile).
```

Reviewer 2: And or could we do a simple and direct description for clarity?

"The empty mode does not include any tests and is automatically used for [interactive compilation](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile#interactive-compile)."
